The Tesseract Demo is a guided demonstration of
how we can visualize rotation in four dimensions.
The demonstration begins with the rotation of a
single point, and builds up step by step to the
four dimensional analogue of a cube, called the
tesseract.

Please press "Point" to begin.

Press "Reset" to stop everything and bring it back
to its original configuration.  Press "Slow" or
"Fast" under "MOTION" to start the object moving.
Then press each object button (at left), starting
at the top, and moving down. At any point, use the
LEFT mouse button to rotate the view shown in the
X_Y_Z_hyperplane.

How to make a tesseract:

Start with a point.  Make a copy of the point, and
move it some distance away.  Connect these points.
We now have a segment.  Make a copy of the
segment, and move it away from the first segment
in a new (orthogonal) direction.  Connect
corresponding points.  This is called a square.
Make a copy of the square, and move it in a new
(orthogonal) direction.  Connect corresponding
segments.  This is called a cube.  Make a copy and
move it in a new (orthogonal, fourth) direction.
Connect corresponding squares.  This is the
tesseract.

For a more detailed description of the mechanics
of this demo, please see the help panels and/or
the man page for NDview.

Original version -- Olaf Holt
Tk/Tcl version -- Nils McCarthy
