The toolkit panel allows you to "manually" create
windows, colormaps, and effect other
transformations often done by scripts (if they are
to be done many times).  In clockwise order, here
is what the various controls do:

Current (maximum) number of dimensions: this
number determines the number of dimensions to be
used in Geomview's internal calculations.  It
should not be set higher than it needs to be for
speed reasons.  Reducing this number forces a
reset of all the camera and object positions.

New Window: pressing this button brings up a panel
for creating a new window, subject to the current
(maximum) number of dimensions.  You may specify
three projection axes and a cluster.  If you want
all your cameras to act independently of each
other, choose a new name for the cluster each time
you create a new window.  A detailed explanation
of how cameras are related to each other and the
role of clusters is found in the NDview manual
pages.

New Colormap: pressing this button brings up an
(independent) panel for creating a new colormap.
Here is one procedure for using the colormap
maker: 1) use the sliders to select a color 2)
fill the fourth numeric input on the right with a
height 3) press add to make the identification of
the displayed height with the displayed color a
part of the emerging colormap.  4) repeat steps
1-3 until a satisfactory "rainbow" has been made
5) press "axes" to specify the name of the window
to which this colormap will be applied (look in
the upper left corner), as well as a vector to
determine the direction for the height function 6)
press "save" to apply this colormap to the window
specified in step 5.  These steps don't have to
occur in exactly the order given above, but once
you make one colormap the process should be clear.

Rotations (x, y, and z): These three sliders
create rotations about the given axis in the
current window.  The position of the slider
determines how the speed of the rotation.  This
may be useful in the case where a precise rotation
is desired, or when a very slow rotation would be
helpful.

Lens: This slider zooms all the cameras in or out
simultaneously.  (Actually, it is adjusting the
focal length of the cameras.)  This is useful if
you want to zoom out quickly.  The effect of
changing the focal length is not the same as
moving the position of the camera in the basis
vectors panel, due to different types of
adjustments made to the internal stack of
transformations.  Note that the position of this
slider may not correspond with the current focal
length of the current camera.
